Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be focussing on this getting the steam works example project up and running so this
is the steelworks example project as you can see in a little space ship I can shoot and I don't want
to get sucked in to this planet or I get destroyed are straightforward.
And this is actually a multiplayer game will be seen that in future elections.
But for now we're going to be concentrating on getting it built in Visual Studio.
So let's dive in and find out.
So before we begin I'd better make it clear that this is about Visual Studio.
So anybody on Mac will want to look at the next lecture.
We'll be showing you how to build the space war example project in X code instead.
So bye bye.
If you're on a Mac and I'll see you in the next lecture.
If you're on Windows then I'm looking forward to showing you how this is done.
Okay.
So introducing these steam works example is going to be the first thing we do.
It's called Spacewar And that's what we're going to be building.
Next up we're going to be updating the projected vision studio 2017 then downloading the direct extra
direct x stk which is a requirement for space war project and we are going to fix any build errors that
occur in Visual Studio.
So let's go right into the steam works example project.
Firstly let's go and have a look.
It's in my hand in my repo and I've got the stk here and in the stk we can see there is a folder called
steam works example.
You open that up then you will see lots of files in here one of which is called steam work eggs steam
works example.
S d s l n.
The solution project for Visual Studio.
Let's go ahead and fire that one up.
I will launch this visual studio project and what we should see is a request to upgrade the project.
That's what we're going to do update the project first and foremost actually be fine I've got it under
version control so I can always roll back and we haven't changed anything from the zip that we downloaded
so we can always unzip it again if anything goes wrong.
Now next up you'll see a security warning.
This is just saying you've got this from a third party.
Are you sure you want to be running third party code.
Because obviously it could be a virus.
Well it's not.
That's from Steve.
We download from Steve.
I'm fairly sure that it's not a virus.
Okay.
So we have now got ourselves a visual studio project that say an X code project there.
And in a tab that's opened up on the other screen we have got this migration report which is just telling
us some warnings that happened during the migration.
Nothing serious.
No errors.
We can happily ignore that.
So let's go ahead and see whether it builds let's go into bruel studio and really get the build menu
and build solution and see what happens.
So I'm building a solution.
I can already see that isn't going to work.
We've got some fatal errors here saying that it cannot open the include file D3 d x 9 dot H.
Okay so it can't find that for some reason or other.
Now what we're going to have to do is look at the instructions given to him with the stk in the documentation.
So that will be on your portal you've got a link for that in the resources.
And I'm just opening that link now and this is what it looks like it's the erstein works API example
application you can get there by going to the documentation and going under the steam works stk section
seemed works A.
And then from the steelworks stk section you can see that there is the link in the main section.
So the steam works API example application space where you click that that gets you through exactly
the same place as well.
Okay so it tells you all about Spacewar is what the features it's using are.
And these are all features that you could use in your own application using steam work.
And then we've got the important bit which is some common build abra's now you can see that one of the
common build areas is the one we are getting.
You cannot open the include file D3 D 9.
It's a little bit different because different versions but it is pretty much the same thing.
Now what it's saying is that this is a problem with that include path.
It's saying that you haven't got direct x or you haven't told direct x where it should look for these
includes.
Sorry you haven't told visual studio where it look should look for the direct x includes.
And similarly the second error is saying a similar thing about linking which is when you take be compiled
binary of your project and smoosh it together with the compiled binary of direct x and basically make
it so that your code can call in to that compiled binary.
And so there are two parts that we're interested in the path to the direct x include files and their
power to the different hex library files.
And both of those Visual Studio needs to know about.
But before we dig any deeper into that you are going to need to make sure you've got yourself a copy
of direct X. Now you can follow the link here and the documentation to the Microsoft download centre
or the one that is in your resources.
Either one will do.
Here you can go ahead and download and start the install process.
I'm not going to be doing that.
I've already got it installed and you should be able to figure it out just go through the options and
accept the defaults.
So these include parts there are funny old business.
Let's try and figure out what they are.
By looking at the example of them over in a visual studio.
So here we are at this visual studio now to set up include path's in Visual Studio C++ project.
You need to go to the project menu and go down to the bottom where it says properties and in the properties
menu it may also say steamboat's example properties by the way in the properties menu we have got a
configurations.
Properties in that left panel and under there you've got a v c plus plus directories.
If you go and click on that then in the middle pane you've got a bunch of options that we can change
that are the properties of this project.
Now the ones that we are interested in are the include directories and the library directories.
Now let me just explain this a little bit.
So here we've got some really strange syntax but we are going to break it down for you if you've never
seen one.
These include pack type things before now the semicolon here is the list separator So really this is
a list of directories that we are the visual studio is going to search through to find the dot files
that you're including.
So if you have a dot h file then it will look for that dot h file in each of these directories and it
will only return error when it hasn't found it in any of them.
Okay and now what are these directories.
They're pretty weird they've got this dollar sign in front of them they're in brackets.
Well these are simply called variables.
They are system variables and they basically or environment variables actually I should say and they
are defined somewhere.
Don't have to worry about it on Windows.
Actually if you look for.
Environment.
Then you.
In your windows menu then you can go to edit the system environment variables and you can see here we've
got environment variables button at the bottom right of this system properties panel and then here you've
got a big long list of your user environment variables as well as your system environment variables
and presumably there are some environment variables in visual studio as well.
So we don't have to worry about that too much.
Basically these are default parts and we don't want to go messing with those because they are what Steam
works decided was okays and what visual studio decide was okay so we don't want to change those.
We only want to add to that list.
We want to add another place for it to look so you could do that at the beginning or you could do that
at the end.
It just depends on the order it is going to go searching through them and you can basically just add
something like I know put a user Sam.
Includes if I had some include in that folder like so and I would finish it off.
No actually I don't need to finish off with a semicolon unlike its not lines of a C++ file this is just
a comma essentially to separate this list so that would mean that first it would look in the folder
pointed to by v.c. Include path then it would look at the windows stk Include path and then it would
look at use the Sam includes.
Okay.
That's basically how we want to edit this to add something on the end.
Now it's going to be your task to figure out what we add on the end.
However.
To fix those build errors.
So let's have the challenge definition to get it running.
Now you're going to get it running by making sure you got the direct x stk installed.
You're going to find the Include and library path's.
Now you've got a link in your resources to the documentation about where to find the stk PAP's in on
Windows.
So go ahead and scour that documentation see if you can find it include and library parts and then add
them to visual studio and build and run.
If you find that after you've fixed the first set of errors a new set of errors comes up don't be disheartened.
That's okay have a go at fixing them.
If you can't fix an then just watch the solution where I will show you how they are fixed and if you
are getting any build errors to do with not being able to find the right version of direct x check out
the resources where we have a link about the Q and A question by Mark who has gone through the pain
for you and you can use his instructions to help you out.
So pause a video and have a go at this.
Okay welcome back.
So let's go scouring for those stk patterns.
I'm going to go and open up the documentation.
It's called Where is the direct x stk in your resources.
And this is the page you'll end up on.
So I'm going to go ahead and look for include.
In here there's a few places that it is.
But this is the one I'm looking for where it says modify the V C plus plus directories.
That's what we have just been doing.
Now I want to show you that there are two directories here that were interested in the include one and
the library one.
And it looks a bit interesting here you've got this include path and library path and then you've got
so it's two elements in this list that include path.
And then the d x stk variable followed by Include and the d x stk variable followed by lib X 86 so we
can do that.
And obviously if we are on an x 86 platform we want to do the x 86 the 64 bit version which is down
here.
In fact it says we need to do apply and choose the 64 bit platform so let's go over to visual studio
and see what that can mean.
I see what it meant about the platform.
So we've got the platform here in the dropdown at the top the active platform is win 32.
But if we were compiling thought 64 bit then we could use that one as well.
I'm going to stick with Win32 and not bother with the instructions for 64 bit.
You can choose to try this 64 bit instructions as well if you like.
Now I'm just going to actually include the second part of this list although I can try including both
and remove the second part.
The first part.
If it's not needed so let's go over to Visual Studio and in and include at the end.
We're going to add the semicolon because we're adding some new items to the list and then paste in those
new items which are they include path and the Direct X SD kadeer Include.
Now next up we're going to the library directory so will copy the library directory.
Go over to the include directories link them library directory variable and at the end we're going to
add a semicolon and paste that in and we're going to go ahead and apply and hit okay and have a go.
A building now with those directories that we have got.
Okay so we are getting some errors about the version of X audio to not being available or being available
only on Windows 8 or later.
So that's a little bit strange.
So if you got this far but couldn't solve this error Don't worry it's actually quite a complicated little
reason.
So let's go ahead.
It's complicated to find but once you found it it can seem quite obvious.
So let's open up the properties again and have a look at our include directories and our library directories.
So the thing that we've got here we could try removing our include path bit which I'm going to do but
that wouldn't alone be enough.
The reason for this is that this header that it's complaining about the X audio to header is actually
already in some of these header include pads it at the beginning of the list so it finds that header
and then it gives up.
But the thing is the X audio that we're looking for is actually in the direct x stk that's the one we
want to go for.
So the problem is when we include direct x lastic picks up the wrong one.
So we actually to include it first so I'm going to take just this bit the variable Plus the Include
and stick it at the beginning of the list in remembering to put the semicolon to separate and removing
the one at the end.
And I'm going to do the same thing with the library rectory because we dont want it to go and pick up
the right head a file then get the wrong library.
That would just be silly.
So we're going to go ahead and stick the library bit at the beginning as well.
And as I guessed we'd actually dont need the first bit of this these two bits in the include directory
we dont need the include path that is just superfluous to requirements.
So if we go back to visual studio we're going to apply those changes and hit okay and try building now.
Okay.
Ah good good stuff.
We've not got any warnings.
It's compiling the plus plus which means it's got past checking all the head of files which I'm very
happy about.
There we go a compiled successfully.
And that means we can go ahead and run it so I'm going to go to the debug menu and start without debugging
and it's going to pop up here.
Now you going to need to have steam running and steam logged in otherwise you'll get some specific errors
about steam in there and we can see that it's attach the seams.
The full steam overlay and we have a game.
So I'm going to go ahead and just start a new server to show you what the game actually is it's going
to ask me for network access which I'm going to allow.
And it is going to create me a server and here you go.
It's a very retro little shooter game little spaceship shooter game and it's actually multi player.
So if you create a lobby then which is what we're going to be doing in the next lecture or at least
the next lecture for you the one after the X code lecture.
It will allow you to join in with somebody else on your LAN or on the Internet and play against them
and shoot them and not get sucked into this central thing which will destroy you if you do get sucked
in.
So I'm just to try and show you what it looks like when I do get sucked in.
I'm orbiting it at the moment but they get you blow up and a new round begins.
So that's where were going to be doing in the next lecture.
Congratulations on getting through this one with all the build areas and all the include lots of new
concepts there.
So I will see you in the next lecture.